Add Bonus Guide: Installation ThunderHub (#735)
raspibolt/raspibolt: bonus/lightning/thunderhub.md

---
layout: default
title: Installation Thunderhub
parent: + Lightning
grand_parent: Bonus Section
nav_exclude: true
has_toc: false
---
# Bonus Guide: Install Thunderhub
{: .no_toc }

---

> [Thunderhub](https://github.com/apotdevin/thunderhub) is an open source LND node manager where you can manage and monitor your node on any device or browser. It allows you to take control of the lightning network with a simple and intuitive UX and the most up-to-date tech stack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Thunderhub](https://github.com/apotdevin/thunderhub) is an open source LND node manager where you can manage and monitor your node on any device or browser. It allows you to take control of the lightning network with a simple and intuitive UX and the most up-to-date tech stack.
```
```suggestion
[Thunderhub](https://github.com/apotdevin/thunderhub){:target="_blank"} is an open source LND node manager where you can manage and monitor your node on any device or browser. It allows you to take control of the lightning network with a simple and intuitive UX and the most up-to-date tech stack.
```

For external links, we add "{:target="_blank"}" after the brackets to ensure that it will open in a new tab (it's a feature of [Just the Docs](https://pmarsceill.github.io/just-the-docs/), the Jekyll theme used for the guide.

Difficulty: Medium
{: .label .label-yellow }

Status: Tested v3
{: .label .label-red }

> ![thunderhub](../../images/75_thunderhub.png)

Reviewer: The picture is a screenshot of the Lightning Terminal rather than ThunderHub.

---

Table of contents
{: .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

---

## Preparations

### Check NodeJS

> * NojeJS v14.0 or above should have been installed for the BTC RPC Explorer. We can check our version of NodeJS with user "admin": 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* NojeJS v14.15 or above should have been installed for the BTC RPC Explorer. We can check our version of NodeJS with user "admin": 
```

ThunderHub now recommends to have NodeJS v14.15 or above: https://docs.thunderhub.io/setup/

  
  ```sh
  $ node -v
  > v14.18.2
  ```

> * If the version is v12.0 or above, you can move to the next section. If NodeJS is not installed, follow [this guide](https://raspibolt.org/btcrpcexplorer.html#install-nodejs) to install it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If the version is v14.15 or above, you can move to the next section. If NodeJS is not installed, follow [this guide](https://raspibolt.org/btcrpcexplorer.html#install-nodejs) to install it.
```

### Firewall 

* Configure firewall to allow incoming HTTP requests from your local network to the web server.

  ```sh
  $ sudo ufw allow from 192.168.0.0/16 to any port 3010 comment 'allow ThunderHub from local network'
  $ sudo ufw status
  ```
  
---

## ThunderHub

### Installation

> We do not want to run the thunderhub code alongside `bitcoind` and `lnd` because of security reasons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We do not want to run the ThunderHub code alongside `bitcoind` and `lnd` because of security reasons.
```
Just nitpicking there :)

For that we will create a separate user and we will be running the code as the new user.

> We are going to install thunderhub in the home directory since it doesn't take much space.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are going to install ThunderHub in the home directory since it doesn't take much space.
```

> * Create a new user with  your `password[A]`. The new user needs read-only access to the `tls.cert` and our `admin.macaroon`, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Create a new user. The new user needs read-only access to the `tls.cert` and our `admin.macaroon`, 
```

>   so we add him to the "bitcoin" group. Open a new session.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  so we add him to the "lnd" group. Open a new session.
```

The owner of the LND data in v3 is now "lnd"

  ```sh

>   $ sudo adduser thunderhub

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  $ sudo adduser --disabled-password --gecos "" thunderhub
```

>   $ sudo adduser thunderhub bitcoin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  $ sudo adduser thunderhub lnd
```

The owner of the LND data in v3 is now "lnd"

  $ sudo su - thunderhub
  ```

* Download the source code directly from GitHub and install all dependencies using NPM.

> ```sh
> $ git clone https://github.com/apotdevin/thunderhub.git
> $ cd thunderhub
> $ npm install
> $ npm run build
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ```sh
  $ git clone https://github.com/apotdevin/thunderhub.git
  $ cd thunderhub
  $ npm install
  $ npm run build
  ```
```

Adding two spaces in front of code block for consistency

### Configuration

> * Edit the configuration file. Switch to `thunderhub` user for this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Still with user "thunderhub", edit the configuration file.
```

As we are already using the user "thunderhub", we could maybe just ad a reminder "Still with user .." (that's how Stadicus advised me to deal with these situations)

  ```sh

>   $ sudo su - thunderhub

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>   $ nano ~/thunderhub/.env

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  $ cp ~/thunderhub/.env ~/thunderhub/.env.local
  $ nano ~/thunderhub/.env.local
```

Maybe we could create a .env.local config file as recommended by ThunderHub, to avoid losing the configuration when updating the program, wdyt?

---
layout: default

> title: Installation Thunderhub

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: ThunderHub
```

Nitpicking here, just for consistency with other guide (afaik we never use Installation just the title of the program) and for spelling of ThunderHub (with a capital H like in their repo)

parent: + Lightning
grand_parent: Bonus Section
nav_exclude: true
has_toc: false
---

> # Bonus Guide: Install Thunderhub

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Bonus Guide: Install ThunderHub
```

{: .no_toc }

---

> [Thunderhub](https://github.com/apotdevin/thunderhub){:target="_blank"} is an open source LND node manager where you can manage and monitor your node on any device or browser. It allows you to take control of the lightning network with a simple and intuitive UX and the most up-to-date tech stack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[ThunderHub](https://github.com/apotdevin/thunderhub){:target="_blank"} is an open source LND node manager where you can manage and monitor your node on any device or browser. It allows you to take control of the lightning network with a simple and intuitive UX and the most up-to-date tech stack.
```

Difficulty: Medium
{: .label .label-yellow }

Status: Tested v3
{: .label .label-green }

![thunderhub](../../images/75_thunderhub_channel_view.png)

---

Table of contents
{: .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

---

## Preparations

> ### Check NodeJS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Check Node.js
```

> * NojeJS v14.15 or above should have been installed for the BTC RPC Explorer. We can check our version of NodeJS with user "admin": 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Noje.js v16 should have been installed for the BTC RPC Explorer and RTL. We can check our version of Node.js with user "admin": 
```

We now use the "Node.js" spelling. Also, the guide is now using v16.

  
  ```sh
  $ node -v

>   > v14.18.2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  > v16.13.2
```

  ```
* If the version is v14.15 or above, you can move to the next section. If Node.js is not installed, follow [this guide](https://raspibolt.org/btcrpcexplorer.html#install-nodejs){:target="_blank"} to install it.

> 

Reviewer 2: Please add nginx config for reverse proxy.

Here is an example of the nginx config. You can change the listen port to whatever port you think fits best for nginx to list on. I just selected RTL+1 :)

```
upstream thunderhub {
  server 127.0.0.1:3010;
}
server {
  listen 4002 ssl;
  proxy_pass thunderhub;
}
```

> * If the version is v14.15 or above, you can move to the next section. If NodeJS is not installed, follow [this guide](https://raspibolt.org/btcrpcexplorer.html#install-nodejs){:target="_blank"} to install it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If the version is v14.15 or above, you can move to the next section. If Node.js is not installed, follow [this guide](https://raspibolt.org/btcrpcexplorer.html#install-nodejs){:target="_blank"} to install it.
```

  ```sh
  $ sudo adduser --disabled-password --gecos "" thunderhub
  $ sudo adduser thunderhub lnd
  $ sudo su - thunderhub
  ```

* Download the source code directly from GitHub and install all dependencies using NPM.

  ```sh
  $ git clone https://github.com/apotdevin/thunderhub.git
  $ cd thunderhub
  $ npm install
  $ npm run build
  ```

### Configuration

* Still with user "thunderhub", edit the configuration file.

  ```sh
  $ cp ~/thunderhub/.env ~/thunderhub/.env.local
  $ nano ~/thunderhub/.env
  ```

* Uncomment the following lines, save and exit:

  ```ini
  # -----------
  # Server Configs
  # -----------
  LOG_LEVEL='debug'

  # -----------
  # Interface Configs
  # -----------
  THEME='dark'

  # -----------
  # Account Configs
  # -----------
  ACCOUNT_CONFIG_PATH='/home/thunderhub/thunderhub/thubConfig.yaml'
  ```

* If not already done, change your directory and edit your `thubConfig.yaml`. Change your `accountpassword`.

  ```sh
  $ cd thunderhub
  $ nano thubConfig.yaml 
  ```
  ```ini
  masterPassword: 'PASSWORD' # Default password unless defined in account
  accounts:
    - name: 'RaspiBolt'
      serverUrl: '127.0.0.1:10009'

>       macaroonPath: '/home/bitcoin/.lnd/data/chain/bitcoin/mainnet/admin.macaroon'

Reviewer 3: If you set up a symlink `$ ln -s /data/lnd /home/thunderhub/.lnd` you can change `macaroonPath` and `certificatePath` to use `/home/thunderhub/.lnd/...` instead of the `bitcoin` user path. More inline with other tutorials

  You should see the home page of ThunderHub.

* If you see a lot of errors on the RaspiBolt command line, then you have to change file permissions maybe,  
  because thunderhub can't "access" the `.lnd` directory.

* Stop ThunderHub in the terminal with `Ctrl`-`C` and exit the "thunderhub" user session.

  ```
  $ exit
  ```

---

## Autostart on boot

Now we'll make sure ThunderHub starts as a service on the Raspberry Pi so it's always running.
In order to do that we create a systemd unit that starts the service on boot directly after LND.

* As user "admin", create the service file.

  ```sh
  $ sudo nano /etc/systemd/system/thunderhub.service
  ```

* Paste the following configuration. Save and exit.

  ```ini
  # RaspiBolt: systemd unit for Thunderhub
  # /etc/systemd/system/thunderhub.service

  [Unit]
  Description=Thunderhub
  Wants=lnd.service
  After=network.target lnd.service

  [Service]
  WorkingDirectory=/home/thunderhub/thunderhub
  ExecStart=/usr/bin/npm run start -p 3010
  User=thunderhub
  Restart=always
  TimeoutSec=120
  RestartSec=30
  StandardOutput=null
  StandardError=journal

  [Install]

>   WantedBy=multi-user.target

Reviewer 2: Please add the following to the systemd file in order to ensure it starts up on port 3010

```
[Service]
Environment="PORT=3010"
```

Reviewer 4: Just throwing this in:
Another possibility is adding port parameter to `.env.local`:
`PORT=3010`

  ```sh
  $ sudo systemctl enable thunderhub.service
  $ sudo systemctl start thunderhub.service
  $ sudo journalctl -f -u thunderhub
  ```

* You can now access ThunderHub from within your local network by browsing to <http://raspibolt.local:3010> (or your equivalent ip address).

---

## Remote access over Tor (optional)

Do you want to access ThunderHub remotely?
You can easily do so by adding a Tor hidden service on the RaspiBolt and accessing ThunderHub with the Tor browser from any device.

* Add the following three lines in the section for "location-hidden services" in the `torrc` file.
  Save and exit.

 ```sh
  $ sudo nano /etc/tor/torrc
  ```

  ```ini
  HiddenServiceDir /var/lib/tor/thunderhub
  HiddenServiceVersion 3
  HiddenServicePort 80 127.0.0.1:3010
  ```

* Restart Tor and get your connection address.

  ```sh
  $ sudo systemctl restart tor
  $ sudo cat /var/lib/tor/thunderhub/hostname
  > abcdefg..............xyz.onion
  ```

* With the [Tor browser](https://www.torproject.org), you can access this onion address from any device.
  Please be aware that this access is not password protected and should not be shared widely.

**Congratulations!**

> You now have the BTC RPC Explorer running to check the Bitcoin network information directly from your node.

Reviewer 4: BTC RPC Explorer -> Thunderhub

---

## Upgrade

Updating to a [new release](https://github.com/apotdevin/thunderhub/releases) should be straight-forward.

* From user "admin", stop the service and open a "thunderhub" user session.

  ```sh
  $ sudo systemctl stop thunderhub
  $ sudo su - thunderhub
  ```

* Fetch the latest GitHub repository information and check out the new release:

  ```sh
  $ cd thunderhub
  $ git pull
  $ npm install

>   $ npm run build

Reviewer 4: easier way: `npm run update`
